There is a lot of interest today in robots
that drive, otherwise known as self driving
cars and such technology has been depicted
in fiction for a very long time. The origin
of self driving car technology can probably
be traced back to these two research robots
from the 1960s.
On the left we have a machine known as the
Stanford cart. This one here was built by
Hans Moravec. What this robot is doing is
using a vision system. In fact, a stereo vision
system to reconstruct the three dimensional
nature of the world in which it’s driving.
It uses that information to plan a path so
that it can avoid hitting any of these obstacles.
This machine was excruciatingly slow. Mostly
dictated by the limited computing power that
was available for the problem back in 1964.
The robot on the right is also pretty famous.
It’s known as Shakey and developed at SRI
International in the late 60s and its career
went on through the 70s. This robot also used
sense of vision to build a map of the environment
in which it was navigating. A major step forward
in self driving car technology was the DARPA
urban challenge in 2007. A number of teams competed
to build robot cars that could perform as
well as human drivers. They had to perform
tasks like moving into parking bays. They
had to do the right things at the intersections.
They had to demonstrate that they could do
overtaking and all of this safely with skill
levels comparable to human drivers.
The winner of that competition was this robot
car called, ‘Boss’ developed by Carnegie
Mellon University and we can see that it doesn't
look anything like an ordinary car. It’s
bristling with all sorts of sensory devices
and a large part of the car is filled with
high performance computing equipment.
Now technology has evolved pretty rapidly
so by the year 2014, Google cars look much
more sleek. There is really in fact only one
sensor that’s obvious when you look at the
car and that is the device known as a Velodyne
scanning laser range finder on the roof of
the car. The way the robot car sees its world
is shown here in what we call a point cloud
image and this is generated by that Velodyne
scanner that we saw on top of the Google car.
The point cloud is a number of points in three
dimensional space and they are typically color
coded. So the colors blue, the cool colors
indicate the ground plane on which the robot
is driving and points above the ground plane
where it might be imprudent to drive are colored
green or red for those points that are very
high above the ground plane. So from this
fairly simple three dimensional geometric
model of the world surrounding the car, the
software on board the car is able to make
a number of decisions about which direction
it should drive.
It’s able to see other objects perhaps human
beings, perhaps other cars, perhaps road signs.
The software on board the vehicle has to take
all of this rich sensory information and create
a plan and then send commands to the car to
adjust the steering wheel or to adjust the
throttle or to adjust the brake.